Hobby Assignment
16 June 2021



Partnership Dance is a fun active, creative and connective activity I've been lucky enough to experience. Sometimes it's referred to as social dancing, ballroom dance, or by individual dance names like tango, salsa, swing, ect.  Typically partnership dance is where two people move and improvise together within a range of common patterns, conventions, and genres of music. Some familiar types of partner dance are tango, salsa, waltz, and swing. 

When I was in college in search of a job, friend of mine owned a small partnership dance studio and offered to take me in and show me the ropes. It didn't take long before I got swept into the fun and energy of the dance world. I was lucky enough to teach hundreds of students over 3 years and even participate in a few competitions. Argentine Tango eventually became my favorite dance. It's a soulful and elegant dance that is very easy to learn and very difficult to master.


But if you are brand new and want to enjoy dancing, your ambition doesn't have to be (and probably shouldn't) be winning a competition. No matter who you are, dance can be a wonderful means of expression, fitness and social cohesion. And while there is a tradition of some of these dance cultures to  be ridged and perhaps carry a legacy of appropriation and exclusion, much of the social dance scene is evolving into a much more flexible, inclusive and dynamic place. 

And the good news is you don't have to be particularly coordinated or especially gifted to dance. If you ever notice yourself enjoying a piece of music and find yourself snapping your fingers or tapping your feet, then dance is for you. And there are many different paths to get started so I recommend you find the one that is perfect fit for you. 

Tips for finding a ballroom or studio

Options for getting started are 
Show up to a studio alone
-with a partner
-private lessons
-group classes
-university club
-learn online

Here are some local studios that teach social dance:

Tango

La Pista | Argentine Tango 
https://lapistatango.com/

SF Loves Tango – Argentine Tango http://sflovestango.com

Swing

Cats Corner San Francisco 
https://www.catscornersf.com/

The 920 Special
https://www.920special.com/

Salsa

Salsa Dancing in San Francisco - Salsa Vida SF
https://www.salsavida.com/sf/salsa-dancing-san-francisco/


Here are some online resources if you want to learn from home: 

Passion 4 Dancing
https://www.passion4dancing.com/

Good luck and enjoy wherever your partnership dance journey takes you!


